Committee: United Nations Security CouncilTopic: The Peacebuilding Process in Afghanistan (2010)
Total number of seats: 25
Language: English
Rules of Procedure: Mixed rules of procedure (combined withThe Provisional Rules of Procedure and Robert' s Rules ofOrder)
Dais Head:上智大学张怡陈
Introduction:
	In 2010, Afghanistan' s post-war peacebuilding processreached a critical juncture. On the one hand, nearly a decade hadpassed since the first U.S.-led military intervention inAfghanistan. Although the fall of Kabul marked the end ofTaliban control at the national level, the responsibility formaintaining security and stability thereafter was largelyassumed by the NATO. Conducting a prolonged security mission-lasting almost ten years-in a region geographically distantfrom nearly all member states posed an exceptionally highpolitical, military, and financial cost for any participatingcountry.
On the other hand, while destructive military operations areoften decisive and swift, the task of establishing a newgovernment after the end of war-one that is effective, inclusive,and "not connected to terrorism" -remains complex and arduous. In the process of rebuilding Afghanistan, fundamentalquestions inevitably arise: who should participate in futuregovernance, who determines eligibility for political andinstitutional participation, and on what basis such decisions aremade. These questions are not only central to Afghanistan' sfuture, but also unavoidable for the peacebuilding agenda of theUnited Nations Security Council.
This committee simulates the Security Council' speacebuilding deliberations on Afghanistan in 2010. Delegateswill serve as Permanent Representatives to the Security Counciland engage in an in-depth simulation of the challenges faced bythe United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA)at this critical stage. Through public debates in the Council,diplomatic negotiations, and simulated decision-makingprocesses-including the issuance of directives during urgentsituations-delegates will explore a range of interconnectedissues, including security dilemmas, peace negotiations, politicalprocesses, humanitarian assistance, and the participation ofwomen and other groups in peacebuilding efforts. In addition toSecurity Council members, this committee will also includeobserver seats for other states and International Organizations.Through this design, the committee seeks to deepen delegates'understanding of how the United Nations system engages inpeacebuilding in practice.
Although Model United Nations conferences take placewithin an abstract simulation framework-often attempting toglimpse the workings of global politics through a single meetingor a single issue-such settings can, at times, obscure attentionto the human dimension. United Nations peace operations, andpeacebuilding in particular, are not abstract political gamesconducted in isolation, nor are they merely calculations ofterritorial movement on a military map. At their core,peacebuilding are efforts about PEOPLE.
At moments of new beginnings, the fundamental question iswhether ordinary individuals-having endured years of war andterror-can begin to participate, even in limited ways, indecisions shaping their own futures, and whether they mayobtain freedom from fear. These are the questions that, at thatmoment in history, required answers from those seated aroundthe table, from soldiers struggling in mountains, from scholarswho decide to leave colleges to the field risking their lives, from
everyone.
And I hope, this time, the answers may also come from us.
The Dais Team of UNSC welcomes all of you to join us in thismarvelous journey. We are looking forward to seeing you on the floor.